Well, conclave begins today, and as we hear these readings today,
From the epistle to the Hebrews in the Gospel of John, I'm flooded with memories.
Ah, Hebrews is a great meditation on priesthood, and when I began studying Latin, I found that there are a lot of words for priests, and one of them is Pontifect.
effects.
The bridge builder,
And the Pope is the Pontifex Maximus, the great
Bridge builder, the the greatest bridge builder.
And I had
I don't want to say own vision, but a clarity about the role of the Pontifex. I was offering Mass one time at a church, and at the high altar they had a beautiful tabernacle.
Knackle and I went to the tabernacle to get a suborium and I opened the door and I genuinely like as I stood up, I looked and I saw that the back wall.
Of the tabernacle.
Was gold polished to a mirror finish.
So as I looked ahead, I saw not only our Lord, but behind me.
His people,
And somehow
The sky from Newark, New Jersey.
Was carrying the needs
And the offerings
Of God's people to God, and returning from the tabernacle, the dwelling place of God.
The benefits of God for God's holy people
What is an astonishing thing to happen to a man from New Jersey, but it happened and I'm here to witness to that and that's just a very small thing.
thing.
Magnify beyond our comprehension when we think of the office.
of the Pope
And as I meditate on priesthood, I can't help but think of my experience as a faculty member in seminaries.
And the most burdensome part of the task was the voting.
Do we let this man into the seminary or not, or do we delay him?
Once he's in, do we keep him? Do we give him a time out? Do we dismiss him? And when he applies for ordination, do we say yes, wait.
No goodbye
And I was always in
English.
Over that over that
Because,
I'm making a tremendous
Decision for the church.
That once made, we can't take it.
Back, we can't say never mind or oops or do over.
And one time, only one time mercifully,
If you've been to an ordination, you present the candidate for ordination. Usually it's the seminary rector who says to the bishop, we recommend these men or brothers to ordination to the rank of deacon.
The deacon, the rank of priest.
And the bishop asks, Do you find these men to be worthy? Well,
I had to present a candidate for the acinet to the bishop.
And he looked at me and said, Do you find these men to be worthy? And happily I had my script, having inquired among the people of God and those responding.
Then finally you get to, "I testify."
that this man is worthy and my knees were knocking. I said, "I don't like this. I don't like this kind of..."
responsibility. There's too much human judgment involved.
Too much.
There's more art than there is science and
You got to rely on the Holy Spirit. And oh, I don't like that because, you know,
He doesn't follow my tune.
Well,
So now let's imagine
These poor souls,
Walking into the Sistine Chapel,
And as they approach with a valid in hand,
They are walking towards Michelangelo's final judgment.
And before he drops his ballot in, he says this.
I call as my witness Christ the Lord.
Who will be my judge?
That my vote is given to the one who
Who before God?
I think,
Should be,
elected.
I think I would faint halfway through that formula.
So our Lord tells us to love one another.
And surely,
To obey his commandments,
And I think somewhere in there, maybe even if it's just in the emanations of the penumbra of his commandments, to borrow a phrase,
Ah, part of what it means to be a disciple is to do what's best for his bride.
That has to be.
Part of what you can is commanded.
So I think it's an act of justice. It might be a matter of enlightened self-interest and surely it is a work of charity.
To intercede for those poor men who will exercise the terrible burden,
Of casting ballots for the Pope.
I wouldn't
I wouldn't want it. I don't have the character to do that.
And this is where
Grace and nature must meet.
This is where the Holy Spirit has to break through perception and cognition and bring light.
To mind and heart as never before.
And we all know well enough for those who dare to cooperate with grace at such a level, unexpected and amazing,
Things
Happen?
So let's pray in these days for the gift of
Many miracles.
In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit.